# 15. Page Sizes

Because screen sizes and display resolutions vary so much, web designers often try to create pages of around **`960-1000`** pixels wide (since most users will be able to see designs this wide on their screens).

Judging the height that people are likely to see on the screen without scrolling down the page is much harder. For several years, designers assumed that users would see the top **`570-600`** pixels of a page without having to scroll and some tried to ﬁt all of the key messages in this area (fearing that people would not scroll down the page).

As screen sizes have increased and handheld devices have become more popular, the area users will see is far more variable.

The area of the page that users would see without scrolling was often referred as being “*above the fold*” (a term newspapers had originally coined to describe the area of the front page you would see if the paper were folded in half).

It is now recognized that if someone is interested in the content of the page, they are likely to scroll down to see more. Having said which, usability studies have shown that visitors can judge a page in under a second so it is still important to let new visitors know that the site is relevant to them and their interests.

As a result, many designs still try to let the user know what the site is about within the top **`570-600`** pixels, as well as hint at more content below this point. But do not try to cram too much into that top area.

At the time of writing, there was a growing trend for people to create adaptive or responsive designs that could change depending on the size of the screen.

---
