# 2. Controlling The Positioin of Elements

CSS has the following positioning schemes that allow you to control the layout of a page:
- **normal ﬂow**
- **relative positioning**
- **absolute positioning**

You specify the positioning scheme using the **`position`** property in CSS. You can also ﬂoat elements using the **`ﬂoat`** property.
## Normal Flow

Every block-level element appears on a new line, causing each item to appear lower down the page than the previous one. Even if you specify the width of the boxes and there is space for two elements to sit side-by-side, they will not appear next to each other. This is the default behavior (unless you tell the browser to do something else).
## Relative Positioning

This moves an element from the position it would be in normal ﬂow, shifting it to the top, right, bottom, or left of where it would have been placed. This does not aﬀect the position of surrounding elements; they stay in the position they would be in in normal ﬂow.
## Absolute Positioning

This positions the element in relation to its containing element. It is taken out of normal ﬂow, meaning that it does not aﬀect the position of any surrounding elements (as they simply ignore the space it would have taken up). Absolutely positioned elements move as users scroll up and down the page.

To indicate where a box should be positioned, you may also need to use box **`oﬀset`** properties to tell the browser how far from the top or bottom and left or right it should be placed. (You will meet these when we introduce the positioning schemes on the following pages.)
## Fixed Positioning

This is a form of absolute positioning that positions the element in relation to the browser window, as opposed to the containing element. Elements with ﬁxed positioning do not aﬀect the position of surrounding elements and they do not move when the user scrolls up or down the page.
## Floating Elements

Floating an element allows you to take that element out of normal ﬂow and position it to the far left or right of a containing box. The ﬂoated element becomes a block-level element around which other content can ﬂow.

When you move any element from normal ﬂow, boxes can overlap. The **`z-index`** property allows you to control which box appears on top.

---
