# 22. Introducing The 960.GS CSS Framework

One of the most popular uses of CSS frameworks is in creating grids to layout pages. There are several grid frameworks out there, but the one we will be looking at over the next few pages is the 960 Grid System (available at www.960.gs ).

**`960.gs`** provides a style sheet that you can include in your HTML pages. Once our page links to this style sheet, you can provide the appropriate classes to your HTML code and it will create multiple column layouts for you. The 960.gs website also provides templates you can download to help design your pages using a 12 column grid. (In addition, there is a variation on the grid that uses 16 columns.)

To create a 12 column grid, an element that contains the entire page is given a class attibute whose value is **`container_12`**. This sets the content of the page to be **`960 pixels`** wide and indicates that we are using a 12 column grid.

There are diﬀerent classes for blocks that take up **`1, 2, 3, 4`**, and up to **`12 columns`** of the grid. Each block uses class names such as **`grid_3`** (for a block that stretches over three columns), **`grid_4`** (for a block that stretches over 4 columns) and and so on through to **`grid_12`** (for a box that is the full width of the page). These columns all ﬂoat to the left, and there is a **`10 pixel margin`** to the *left* and the *right* of each one.
There are several other grid-based CSS frameworks available online, such as those at:
- www.blueprintcss.org 
- www.lessframework.com 
- www.developer.yahoo.com/yui/grids/
## 22.1. Using The 960.GS Grid

Instead of writing our own CSS to control layout, we will need to add classes to the HTML indicating how wide each section should be.
### A Grid-Based Layout Using 960.GS

Let's take a look at an HTML page and how it has been marked up to use the 960.gs grid system. You can see that we include the CSS for the grid using the **`<link>`** element inside the **`<head>`** of the page.

The **`960_12_col.css`** stylesheet contains all of the rules we need to control the grid layout.

The HTML uses the class names:
**`container_12`** to act as a container for the whole page and indicate that we are using a 12 column grid clearfix to ensure that browsers know the height of the containing box, because it only contains ﬂoated elements

The **`960.gs`** style sheet has taken care of the layout, creating the correct width for the columns and setting the spaces between them. Therefore, the only rules we needed to add are shown on this page. These rules:
- Control the font and the position of the text in the boxes
- Set the background colors for the boxes
- Set the height of the feature and article boxes
- Add a margin to the top and bottom of each box

---
