# 9. Aligning Form Controls - Problem

Labels for form elements are often diﬀerent lengths, which means that the form controls will not appear in a straight line.

It is easier for users to ﬁll in a form if the form controls are aligned in a straight vertical line.

If you look at where we ask users their gender, the two radio buttons each have their own **`<label>`** (one saying male and another saying female). A **`<span>`** element has been added to the title which will help align these controls.
On the previous page we saw another technique to align form elements. When the form only contains text inputs, by setting all of the text inputs to be the same width, as well as aligning all of the form content to the right, the ﬁelds line up and the labels are in a consistent place. For more complex forms, you will need a solution more like the one shown on these pages.
## 9.1. Aligning Form Controls: Solution

Each row of the form has a title telling users what they need to enter. For the text inputs, the title is in the **`<label>`** element. For the radio buttons, the title is in a **`<span>`** element. Both have a class attribute with a value of title.

We can use a property called **`float`** to move the titles to the left of the page.

By setting the **`width`** property on those elements, we know that the titles will each take up the same width. Therefore, the form controls next to them will line up.

The **`text-align`** property is used to align the titles to the right, and padding is used to make sure there is a gap between the text in the title boxes and the form controls.

Styles are also applied to the **`<div>`** elements that contain each row of the form (ﬁxing their width and creating vertical space between each row). The submit button is also aligned to the right.

---
