# 8. Images Rollovers & Sprites

Using CSS, it is possible to create a **link** or **button** that changes to a second style when a user moves their mouse over it (known as a *rollover*) and a third style when they click on it.

This is achieved by setting a background image for the link or button that has three diﬀerent styles of the same button (but only allows enough space to show one of them at a time). 

When a single image is used for several diﬀerent parts of an interface, it is known as a *sprite*.

You can add the logo and other interface elements, as well as buttons to the image.
The advantage of using sprites is that the web browser only needs to request one image rather than many images, which can make the web page load faster.

Because the **`<a>`** element is an inline element, we set the **`display`** property of these links to indicate that they should be **`inline-block`** elements. This allows us to specify the **`width`** and **`height`** of each **`<a>`** element so that it matches the size of its corresponding button.

The **`background-position`** property is used to move the image in order to show the button in the right state.
When the user hovers over a link, the **`:hover`** pseudo-class has a rule that moves the background-position of the image to show a diﬀerent state for that button.
Similarly, when the user clicks on the link, the **`:active`** pseudo-class has a rule to show the third state for that button.
Touch screen devices will not change a link's state when the user hovers over it, as the screens do not yet have a way to tell when the user is hovering. However, they will change their appearance when the user activates them.

---
